.TH MKCOMPOSECACHE 1 "mkcomposecache 1.0" "X Version 11"

.SH NAME
mkcomposecache \- create a cache file for a compose file explicitely

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "mkcomposecache"
.I locale
.I compose-file
.I cache-dir
[
.I internal-name
]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I mkcomposecache
creates a cache file for the specified
.I compose-file
used in the given
.I locale
and saves it in
.IR cache-dir .
If
.I internal-name
has been spezified, it is used as the name of the compose table for computing
the hash values and internal validation. This is necessary if global compose
cache files shall be created while using
.I DESTDIR
during X11 installation.

Notes:
.TP 2
-
compose cache files are created by libX11, thus
an Xserver has to be running and
.I DISPLAY
has to be set correctly for creating cache files.
.TP 2
-
libX11 will not write compose cache files if run as root or with different
real and effective uids.
.TP 2
-
libX11 will not create compose cache files in directories writable for other
users.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.I mkcomposecache
returns with exit status 1 on general errors (no Xserver, invoked as root,
etc.) and 2 on unsupported locales.

An exit status of 0 does not imply that a cache file is actually written,
though.  This very much depends on the used libX11 and its safety regulations.

.SH EXAMPLES
.B mkcomposecache
en_US.UTF-8
/var/tmp/buildroot/usr/share/X11/locale/en_US.UTF-8/Compose
/var/tmp/buildroot/var/X11R6/compose_cache
/usr/share/X11/locale/en_US.UTF-8/Compose

.SH FILES
.B /var/X11R6/compose_cache
Location of global compose cache.

.SH AUTHOR
.B mkcomposecache
was written by Matthias Hopf <mhopf@suse.de>.
